# Incident: 2025-11-17 13-37-42

## Summary

Between the hours of **20:00** and **20:05** on **2025-12-1**, approximately **100%** of users were unable to order pizzas through the JWT Pizza website. The event was triggered by a chaos testing program at **20:00 UTC** that stopped all functionality of the JWT Pizza Factory. 

This effectively prevented any pizzas from being sold. The event was detected by **the DevOps Team**, when an alert was sent. The team responded immedatily and found the shutoff url in the error logs and restored functionality.

This **SEV-1** incident affected **all customers**.

## Detection

This incident was detected when an **“Pizza Creation Failed Alert”** was triggered and the **JWT Pizza DevOps Team** was paged.

Response was delayed by **2 minutes** due to multiple hungry diners having orders that contained 20 or more pizzas, which clogged the error logging and required extra time to find the relevant logs.

A **hungry diner check** will be added by **Frontend Engineering** to ensure that larger orders can be filtered out in the case of a future incident.

## Impact

For **5 minutes** between **20:00 UTC and 20:05 UTC** on **12/1/2025**, users were unable to order pizza.

This incident affected **all customers**, each of whom was unable to order pizzas during this time. Franchise creaion, menu access, and authentication were unaffected.

**0 support tickets** were submitted, indicating that the issue was not noticed by our users.”

## Timeline

All times are UTC.

- _20:00_ – Chaos testing daemon turns off pizza factory.
- _20:00_ – Dashboard proudly shows “Last updated: 00:00:00, January 1, 1970.”
- _20:02_ – Pizza Creation Failure alert triggers.
- _20:02_ – Grafana IRM dispatches notification to Corwyn Giles.
- _20:03_ – On-call engineer confims that pizzas are are not being sold.
- _20:05_ – Shutdown URL found in error logs.
- _20:05_ – All systems restored; pizzas can now be sold again.

## Response

After receiving the page at **20:02 UTC**, **on-call DevOps engineer (Corwyn)** acknowledged the incident  at **20:02 UTC**.

Corwyng quickly realized the root cause involved the factory, and began looking through the error logs relating towards pizza creation failures. 

Corwyn disabled the chaos daemon using the showdown url contained within the error logs.

## Root cause

A chaos testing daemon programatically shut down all pizza creation requests sent to the pizza factory. This prevented any pizzas from being sold.

## Resolution

The team restored service by locating the shutdown url in the error logs, which reset the chaos testing program and returned the site to normal funcionality.

## Prevention

This is the first incident caused by this chaos testing program. Proper alerts were applied which caught the incident withing 2 minutes of breakdown.

## Action items

1. Add an error message in the case of a hungry diner so that it can be filtered in the case of an incident. (assigned to Corwyn, due 2025-12-16).